FOCUS #231: ListUnitPrice metric review (#234)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/metrics/listunitprice.md

> # List Unit Price

Reviewer: Practitioners can calculate this by dividing List Cost to usage amount. Unless I'm missing something this column might be considered redundant. Happy to discuss further this topic with the group.

> The List Unit Price represents a suggested provider-published unit price for a single [Pricing Unit](#pricingunit) of the associated SKU, exclusive of any discounts. This price is denominated in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency). The List Unit Price can be used for calculating savings based on various rate optimization activities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The List Unit Price represents the suggested provider-published unit price for a single [Pricing Unit](#pricingunit) of the associated SKU, exclusive of any discounts. This price is denominated in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency). The List Unit Price can be used for calculating savings based on various rate optimization activities.
```

> The List Unit Price represents a suggested provider published unit price for a single pricing measurement unit, which incorporates volume/tier-based rates while excluding any negotiated or commitment-based discounts. This price is denominated in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency). It is used to calculate List Cost and savings based on rate optimization activities.

Reviewer: Should be in sync with the [suggestion](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/235/files#r1370605836) :
...while excluding any negotiated, commitment-based discounts or spare capacity (spot) discounts...

Author: To include the capability to calculate savings from utilizing spare capacity (spot) discounts, we are still exploring a couple of alternative List Unit Price definitions.

- OPTION A (current version): _The List Unit Price represents a suggested provider-published unit price for a single pricing measurement unit (identified by a [Sku Price Id](#skupriceid)), which incorporates volume/tier-based rates while excluding any negotiated discounts, commitment-based discounts or the amortization of upfront charges (one-time or recurring)._

- OPTION B : _The List Unit Price represents a suggested provider-published unit price for a single pricing measurement unit (identified by a [Sku Price Id](#skupriceid)), which incorporates volume/tier-based rates while excluding any negotiated discounts, commitment-based discounts, **spare capacity (spot) discounts** or the amortization of upfront charges (one-time or recurring)._

- OPTION C (aligned with pricing model column terminology): _The List Unit Price represents a suggested provider-published unit price for a single pricing measurement unit (identified by a [Sku Price Id](#skupriceid)), which incorporates volume/tier-based rates while excluding any negotiated discounts, commitment-based discounts, **the impacts of dynamic pricing model** or the amortization of upfront charges (one-time or recurring)._

Note: **Alignment of all unit price and cost metric definitions is implied.**

Reviewer 3: B is most clear but lacks flexibility of C.  Instead of "the impacts of dynamic pricing model" how about "dynamic pricing models (e.g. spare capacity (spot) discounts)"?

Reviewer 2: I think we first need to determine if ListCost can/should behave in this way (excluding dynamic prices and replacing with 'fixed' prices of a similar (not equivalent) SKU. Once we have that decision (poll wording is in review), we should decide how to write this?

Author: Based on the further in-meeting discussion, a new version of the definition has been prepared. 
Closing this conversation and opening a related conversation available [here](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/234#discussion_r1382558297).

> The List Unit Price represents a suggested provider-published unit price for a single pricing measurement unit (identified by a [Sku Price Id](#skupriceid)), which incorporates volume/tier-based rates while excluding any negotiated or commitment-based discounts. This price is denominated in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency). It is used to calculate List Cost and savings based on rate optimization activities.

Author: in response to the [suggestion to add _...(identified by SkuId)..._](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/234#issuecomment-1777791478) - discussed and agreed to add _...(identified by Sku Price Id)..._

> The List Unit Price represents a suggested provider-published unit price for a single pricing measurement unit (identified by a [Sku Price Id](#skupriceid)), which incorporates free-tier, volume/tier-based, BYOL-based and dynamically priced SKU rates, while excluding any other discounts or the amortization of upfront charges (one-time or recurring). This price is denominated in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency). The List Unit Price can be used for calculating savings based on rate optimization activities. In this context, activities such as increased consumption leading to lower volume/tier-based rates, the use of pre-owned software licenses (BYOL - Bring Your Own License), leveraging interruptible resources and/or services, or optimizing usage to take advantage of dynamic pricing models are not considered rate optimization activities.

Author: The new version of the definition requires review.

Reviewer 4: I would rather not make a statement about what is or isn't rate optimization.  Would this convey the same point without taking a stance on what rate optimization is?

```
List Unit Price cannot be used to calculate savings based on volume/tier-based pricing, the use of pre-owned software licenses (BYOL - Bring Your Own License), leveraging interruptible resources and/or services, or optimizing usage to take advantage of dynamic pricing models.
```

Reviewer 4: ...or what Udam suggested 🙂

Author: to be noted in the Supporting content

Author: noted in the supporting content.

> The List Unit Price represents a suggested provider-published unit price for a single pricing measurement unit (identified by a [Sku Price Id](#skupriceid)), which incorporates free-tier, volume/tier-based, BYOL-based and dynamically priced SKU rates, while excluding any other discounts or the amortization of upfront charges (one-time or recurring). This price is denominated in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency). The List Unit Price can be used for calculating savings based on rate optimization activities. In this context, activities such as increased consumption leading to lower volume/tier-based rates, the use of pre-owned software licenses (BYOL - Bring Your Own License), leveraging interruptible resources and/or services, or optimizing usage to take advantage of dynamic pricing models are not considered rate optimization activities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The List Unit Price represents a suggested provider-published unit price, identified by the [SKU Price ID](#skupriceid), for a single [Pricing Unit](#pricingunit) of the associated SKU of a charge. This price is denominated in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency). The List Unit Price can be used for calculating savings based on various rate optimization activities. 
```

> The List Unit Price represents a suggested provider-published unit price for a single pricing measurement unit (identified by a [Sku Price Id](#skupriceid)), which incorporates free-tier, volume/tier-based, BYOL-based and dynamically priced SKU rates, while excluding any other discounts or the amortization of upfront charges (one-time or recurring). This price is denominated in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency). The List Unit Price can be used for calculating savings based on rate optimization activities. In this context, activities such as increased consumption leading to lower volume/tier-based rates, the use of pre-owned software licenses (BYOL - Bring Your Own License), leveraging interruptible resources and/or services, or optimizing usage to take advantage of dynamic pricing models are not considered rate optimization activities.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The List Unit Price represents a suggested provider-published unit price for a single pricing measurement unit (identified by a [Sku Price Id](#skupriceid)), which incorporates free-tier, volume/tier-based, BYOL-based and dynamically-priced SKU rates, while excluding any other discounts or the amortization of upfront charges (one-time or recurring). This price is denominated in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency). The List Unit Price can be used for calculating savings based on rate optimization activities. In this context, activities such as increased consumption leading to lower volume/tier-based rates, the use of pre-owned software licenses (BYOL - Bring Your Own License), leveraging interruptible resources and/or services, or optimizing usage to take advantage of dynamic pricing models are not considered rate optimization activities.
```

Reviewer 4: Ignore this if you go with Udam's suggestion. Just wanted to catch the missing hyphen. He removed that part.

Author: Going with Udam's suggestion for the definition.
Adding a note in the supporting content about free-tier usage, volume/tier-based pricing, BYOL-based pricing, dynamically-priced SKU rates, etc.

> The List Unit Price represents a suggested provider-published unit price for a single pricing measurement unit (identified by a [Sku Price Id](#skupriceid)), which incorporates free-tier, volume/tier-based, BYOL-based and dynamically priced SKU rates, while excluding any other discounts or the amortization of upfront charges (one-time or recurring). This price is denominated in the [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency). The List Unit Price can be used for calculating savings based on rate optimization activities. In this context, activities such as increased consumption leading to lower volume/tier-based rates, the use of pre-owned software licenses (BYOL - Bring Your Own License), leveraging interruptible resources and/or services, or optimizing usage to take advantage of dynamic pricing models are not considered rate optimization activities.

Reviewer 5: >   a suggested provider-published unit price for a single pricing measurement unit (identified by a [Sku Price Id](#skupriceid))

I am not clear why the single pricing measurement unit is identified by the SKU Price ID. My understanding is that a SKU may have SKU Prices,. which are all identified with different SKU Price IDs:
- List Price (what we are discussing here) = public on-demand price (no commitment)
- Negotiated Price = negotiated on-demand price (no commitment)
- Effective Price  = Negotiated price with commitment-based discount

So I would propose:

>   a suggested provider-published unit price for *the* single pricing measurement unit *that is billed in the charge*

Reviewer 5: Or maybe the "(identified by a [Sku Price Id])" means there must be a SKU Price ID for the list price?
If yes, it may be confusing, the SKU Price ID of the list price may be different from the SKU Price ID of the record.

To make it clearer, maybe:

> If list price applies from the charge, then the SKU Price ID of the charge must identify a provider-published unit price

Author: One SKU ID can have multiple SKU Price IDs, multiple ListUnitPrices in case of volume/tiered-based rating. 
E.g.:

- tier 1: 0 - 1000 requests; 1.00 $
- tier 2: 1001 - 10000 requests; 0.90$
- etc.

> 

Reviewer 4: We need an explicit statement about the pricing currency issue in all price columns. This is too big of an issue to brush under the rug.
```suggestion

While FOCUS includes all prices in the BillingCurrency, providers may use a separate currency for pricing and invoicing. This means prices in FOCUS may not be the same as what is in the provider's cost and usage data, price list, or invoice. Practitioners need to account for the provider's exchange rate when comparing prices in FOCUS to other sources.

```

Reviewer 4: Will cover this in a separate PR

> The ListUnitPrice column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be a numeric value of type Decimal within the range of non-negative decimal values and specified in the BillingCurrency. ListUnitPrice MUST NOT be null or empty if SkuPriceId is not null and MUST be null if SkuPriceId is null. When ListUnitPrice is not null, multiplying ListUnitPrice by [QuantityInPricingUnit](#quantityinpricingunit) MUST equal [ListCost](#listcost).

Author: ```suggestion
The ListUnitPrice column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be a numeric value of type Decimal within the range of non-negative decimal values and denominated in the BillingCurrency. ListUnitPrice MUST NOT be null or empty if SkuPriceId is not null and MUST be null if SkuPriceId is null. When ListUnitPrice is not null, multiplying ListUnitPrice by [QuantityInPricingUnit](#quantityinpricingunit) MUST equal [ListCost](#listcost).
```

> The ListUnitPrice column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be a numeric value of type Decimal within the range of non-negative decimal values and denominated in the BillingCurrency. ListUnitPrice MUST NOT be null or empty if SkuPriceId is not null and MUST be null if SkuPriceId is null. When ListUnitPrice is not null, multiplying ListUnitPrice by [QuantityInPricingUnit](#quantityinpricingunit) MUST equal [ListCost](#listcost).

Author: Question: Do we need to mention the Billing Currency in normative paragraphs of cost columns as well?

> The ListUnitPrice column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be a numeric value of type Decimal within the range of non-negative decimal values. It MUST NOT contain null if SkuPriceId is not null and it MUST be null if SkuPriceId is null. When ListUnitPrice is not null, multiplying ListUnitPrice by [QuantityInPricingUnit](#quantityinpricingunit) MUST equal [ListCost](#listcost).

Reviewer 4: Aligning with others and adding the billing currency requirement. (If it's not here, then it's not a requirement 😉)
```suggestion
The ListUnitPrice column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be a numeric value of type Decimal within the range of non-negative decimal values and specified in the BillingCurrency. ListUnitPrice MUST NOT be null or empty if SkuPriceId is not null and MUST be null if SkuPriceId is null. When ListUnitPrice is not null, multiplying ListUnitPrice by [QuantityInPricingUnit](#quantityinpricingunit) MUST equal [ListCost](#listcost).
```

## Description

> A suggested provider-published unit price for a single [Pricing Unit](#pricingunit) of the associated SKU, exclusive of any discounts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The suggested provider-published unit price for a single [Pricing Unit](#pricingunit) of the associated SKU, exclusive of any discounts.
```

> A suggested provider-published unit price for a single pricing measurement unit (identified by a [Sku Price Id](#skupriceid)), which incorporates free-tier, volume/tier-based, BYOL-based and dynamically priced SKU rates, while excluding any other discounts or the amortization of upfront charges (one-time or recurring).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A suggested provider-published unit price, identified by the [SKU Price ID](#skupriceid), for a single [Pricing Unit](#pricingunit) of the associated SKU of a charge.
```

Reviewer 4: I would also remove "A" in the beginning. It's not needed.
